{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2868
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Menlo-BoldItalic;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Menlo-Regular;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 Menlo-Italic;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red251\green0\blue7;\red255\green255\blue11;\red0\green0\blue0;
\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue0;\red182\green180\blue167;\red0\green0\blue0;\red182\green180\blue167;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c100000\c12195\c0;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c0;\cssrgb\c0\c1\c1;
\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c0\c1\c1;\cssrgb\c76319\c75519\c71217;\cssrgb\c0\c1\c1;\cssrgb\c76319\c75519\c71217;
}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww29200\viewh17740\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\qj\partightenfactor0

\f0\i\b\fs32 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1\i0\b0 \cf3 \ulnone Old ML\cf4  - Only classifies data based on the given input pattern/data.\
example : A model given 10000 pics of dogs and cats. ML classifies the 10000 pic on dog or cat based on learned pattern.\
\
\cf3 Gen AI\cf4  - Instead of classifying, it generates (ans, summary, code etc)\
\
	How gen ai actually works :-\
	1. Tokenisation : Gen ai breaks the prompts into token. \'93Hello World\'94 \'97> [\'93Hello\'94, \'93\'94World]\
	2. Embedding : Converts each tokens into number vector called embedding. Here each number represents tokens property. \
	3. Positional Information : Gives info about token\'92s position.\
	4. Self-attention mechanism : It asks \'93Which earlier token matters the most for current token ?\'94\
	5. Transformer Layer : detect relationships, understand syntax, understand richer meaning and patterns. Refine the representation.\
	6. Output : \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 Model predicts the most probable tokens and then repeat.\
\
\cf3 \strokec5 LLM (Large Language Model)\cf0 \strokec5  - Neural network trained on 
\f2\i \ul \strokec5 massive amount (billion of document, websites, articles)
\f1\i0 \ulnone \strokec5  of text that learns patterns in language and generate response by predicting the next token based on context.\
\
\cf3 \strokec5 Prompt\cf0 \strokec5  - It is the text inout or the context of the situation that we have given to LLM model.\
\cf3 \strokec5 Prompt Engineering\cf0 \strokec5  - Skills of generating prompts carefully to get better reliable, more accurate and more useful outputs. Core skill of an AI builder.\
	\cf6 \outl0\strokewidth0 System prompt : Background instruction that developer writes and defines LLM\'92s behaviour. User never sees it. Better the system prompt better the 						ai o/p \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf6 	User prompt : Actual prompt that user gives while using the model\cf0 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\
Things to be considered while giving prompts to a LLM model -\
1. Mention role + task. ex : You are my maths tutor and explain me the concept of algebra.\
2. Chain of thought. ex : Is 2 a prime number. Think step by step before giving ans. This forces model to mention reason for the ans and not guess ans.\
3. Give few examples. ex : \cf8 \strokec9 Classify reviews - \'93Product was good\'94 -> positive, \'93does not taste good\'94 -> negative. \'93Delivery was late\'94 -> ?\
4. Mention format of the output. ex : Give the ans in point wise highlighting keywords of each point.\
\
.\
}